Qt SOLUTIONS COMMERCIAL LICENSE AGREEMENT
Agreement version 1.1


IMPORTANT-READ CAREFULLY: 
1.	This Trolltech End-User License Agreement ("Agreement") is a
legal agreement between you (either an individual or a legal entity)
("Licensee") and Trolltech Inc. ("Trolltech") for the Trolltech software
product(s) accompanying this Agreement, which include(s) computer
software and may include "online" or electronic documentation,
associated media, and printed materials, including the source code,
example programs and the documentation ("Solution(s)"). 

2.	The Solution is protected by copyright laws and international
copyright treaties, as well as other intellectual property laws and
treaties. The Solution is licensed, not sold. 

3.	By installing, copying, or otherwise using the Solution,
Licensee agrees to be bound by the terms of this Agreement. If Licensee
does not agree to the terms of this Agreement, Licensee may not install,
copy, or otherwise use the Solutions. Licensee may, however, return it
to Licensee's place of purchase within 14 days for a full refund. In
addition, by installing, copying, or otherwise using any updates or
other components of the Licensed Software that Licensee receives
separately as part of the Licensed Software ("Updates"), Licensee agrees
to be bound by any additional license terms that accompany such Updates.
If Licensee does not agree to the additional license terms that
accompany such Updates, Licensee may not install, copy, or otherwise use
such Updates. 

4.	Upon Licensee's acceptance of the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, Trolltech grants Licensee the right to use the Solution in
the manner provided below. 

5.	Trolltech grants to Licensee a non-exclusive, non-transferable,
perpetual license to make and use copies of the Solution for the sole
purposes of designing, developing, and testing Licensee's software
product(s) ("Applications"). Licensee may install copies of the Solution
on an unlimited number of computers provided that Licensee is the only
individual using the Solution. If Licensee is an entity, Trolltech
grants Licensee the right to designate one, and only one, individual
within Licensee's organization who shall have the sole right to use the
Solution in the manner provided above. 

6.	Verification: Trolltech or a certified auditor on Trolltech's
behalf, may, upon its reasonable request and at its expense, audit
Licensee with respect to the use of the Licensed Software. Any such
audit shall be conducted during regular business hours at Licensee's
facilities and shall not unreasonably interfere with Licensee's business
activities. Trolltech will not remove, copy, or redistribute any
electronic material during the course of an audit. Licensee does not
implicitly grant Trolltech any form of license agreement. If an audit
reveals that Licensee is using the Licensed Software in a way that is in
material violation of the terms of the Agreement, then Licensee shall
pay Trolltech's reasonable costs of conducting the audit. In the case of
a material violation, Licensee agrees to pay Trolltech any amounts owing
that are attributable to the unauthorized use. In the alternative,
Trolltech reserves the right, at Trolltech's sole option, to terminate
the licenses for the Licensed Software. 

7.	The Solutions may provide links to third party libraries or code
(collectively "Third Party Libraries") to implement various functions.
Third Party Libraries do not comprise part of the Solutions. In some
cases, access to Third Party Libraries may be included along with the
Solutions delivery as a convenience for development and testing only.
Such source code and libraries as are or may be listed in the
".../src/3rdparty" source tree delivered with the Solutions, as may be
amended from time to time, do not comprise the Solutions. Licensee
acknowledges (1) that some Third Party Libraries may require additional
licensing of copyright and patents from the owners of such, and (2) that
distribution of any of the Solutions referencing any portion of a Third
Party Library may require appropriate licensing from such third parties.

GENERAL TERMS THAT APPLY TO APPLICATIONS AND REDISTRIBUTABLES

8.	Trolltech grants Licensee a nonexclusive, royalty-free right to
reproduce and distribute the object code form of the Solution
("Redistributables"). Copies of Redistributables may only be distributed
with and for the sole purpose of executing Applications permitted under
this Agreement. Under no circumstances may any copies of
Redistributables be distributed separately. 

9.	The license granted in this Agreement for Licensee to create
Applications and distribute them and the Redistributables (if any) to
Licensee's customers is subject to all of the following conditions: (i)
all copies of the Applications Licensee creates must bear a valid
copyright notice, either Licensee's own or the copyright notice that
appears on the Solution; (ii) Licensee may not remove or alter any
copyright, trademark or other proprietary rights notice contained in any
portion of the Solutions; (iii) Redistributables, if any, shall be
licensed to Licensee's customer "as is"; (iv) Licensee will indemnify
and hold Trolltech, its related companies and its suppliers, harmless
from and against any claims or liabilities arising out of the use,
reproduction or distribution of Applications; (v) Applications must be
developed using a licensed, registered copy of the Solution; (vi)
Applications must add primary and substantial functionality to the
Solution; (vii) Applications may not pass on functionality which in any
way makes it possible for others to create software with the Solution;
(viii) Applications may not compete with the Solution; (ix) Licensee may
not use Trolltech's or any of its suppliers' names, logos, or trademarks
to market Application(s), except to state that Application was developed
using the Solution. 

10.	WARRANTY DISCLAIMER: THE SOLUTION IS LICENSED TO LICENSEE "AS
IS". TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, TROLLTECH ON
BEHALF OF ITSELF AND ITS SUPPLIERS, DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES AND
CONDITIONS, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE,
TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT WITH REGARD TO THE SOLUTION. THIS WARRANTY
DISCLAIMER NOTWITHSTANDING, LICENSEE MAY HAVE SPECIFIC LEGAL RIGHTS
WHICH MAY VARY FROM STATE/JURISDICTION TO STATE/JURISDICTION. 

11.	LIMITATION OF LIABILITY: IF, TROLLTECH'S WARRANTY DISCLAIMER
NOTWITHSTANDING, TROLLTECH IS HELD LIABLE TO LICENSEE, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER LEGAL THEORY, BASED ON THE SOLUTION,
TROLLTECH'S ENTIRE LIABILITY TO LICENSEE AND LICENSEE'S EXCLUSIVE REMEDY
SHALL BE, AT TROLLTECH'S OPTION, EITHER (A) RETURN OF THE PRICE LICENSEE
PAID FOR THE LICENSED SOFTWARE, OR (B) REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT OF THE
SOLUTION, PROVIDED LICENSEE RETURNS TO TROLLTECH ALL COPIES OF THE
SOLUTION AS ORIGINALLY DELIVERED TO LICENSEE. TROLLTECH SHALL NOT UNDER
ANY CIRCUMSTANCES BE LIABLE TO LICENSEE BASED ON FAILURE OF THE SOLUTION
IF THE FAILURE RESULTED FROM ACCIDENT, ABUSE OR MISAPPLICATION, NOR
SHALL TROLLTECH UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES BE LIABLE FOR SPECIAL DAMAGES,
PUNITIVE OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF PROFITS OR
INTERRUPTION OF BUSINESS OR FOR LOSS OR CORRUPTION OF DATA. ANY AWARD OF
DAMAGES FROM TROLLTECH TO LICENSEE SHALL NOT EXCEED THE TOTAL AMOUNT
LICENSEE HAS PAID TO TROLLTECH IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT. 

SUPPORT
12.	Support: Support will be made available by Trolltech to
Licensees who hold a valid support and maintenance agreement with
Trolltech related to the following: (i) help and assistance with
installation of the Solution; (ii) help and assistance to try to resolve
problems in environments listed in the "Tested on:" paragraph in the
description of each Solution under
http://www.trolltech.com/products/solutions/catalog/index.html. 

GENERAL PROVISIONS

13.	Licensee Name: Trolltech may include Licensee's company name in
a publicly available list of Trolltech customers. 

14.	No Assignment: Neither this Agreement nor Licensee's rights
under this Agreement are assignable or transferable by Licensee either
in whole or in part to any third party without Trolltech's written
consent. Any attempted assignment or transfer in violation of the
foregoing shall be void. Trolltech may assign or transfer this Agreement
to any third party who acquires substantially all of Trolltech
copyrights in and to the Licensed Software. 

15.	Termination: Trolltech may terminate the Agreement at any time
immediately upon written notice by Trolltech to Licensee if Licensee
breaches this Agreement, fails to pay the fees for the Solution, or
infringes Trolltech's intellectual property in or to the Solution. Upon
termination of the Licenses, Licensee shall return to Trolltech all
copies of Solutions that were supplied by Trolltech. All other copies of
Solutions in the possession or control of Licensee must be erased or
destroyed. An officer of Licensee must promptly deliver to Trolltech a
written confirmation that this has occurred. 

16.	A "U.S. Government End User" shall mean any agency or entity of
the government of the United States. The following shall apply if
Licensee is a U.S. Government End User. The Licensed Software is a
"commercial item," as that term is defined in 48 C.F.R. 2.101 (Oct.
1995), consisting of "commercial computer software" and "commercial
computer software documentation," as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R.
12.212 (Sept. 1995). Consistent with 48 C.F.R. 12.212 and 48 C.F.R.
227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4 (June 1995), all U.S. Government End Users
acquire the Licensed Software with only those rights set forth herein.
The Licensed Software (including related documentation) is provided to
U.S. Government End Users: (a) only as a commercial end item; and (b)
only pursuant to this Agreement. 

17.	Compliance with local laws: Licensee shall comply with all
applicable laws and regulations relating to the Solution in the United
States and in other countries in which Licensee uses or modifies the
Solution. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Licensee
shall not export, reexport, disclose or distribute any of the Solution
in violation of any applicable laws or regulations, including the export
laws and regulations of the United States, and shall comply with all
such laws and regulations. 

18.	Entire Agreement: This Agreement constitutes the complete
agreement between the parties and supersedes all prior or
contemporaneous discussions, representations, and proposals, written or
oral, with respect to the subject matters discussed herein. No
modification of this Agreement will be effective unless contained in a
writing signed by authorized representatives of each party. No term or
condition contained in Licensee's purchase order will apply unless
expressly accepted by Trolltech in writing. If any provision of the
Agreement is found void or unenforceable, the remainder will remain
valid and enforceable according to its terms. If any remedy provided is
determined to have failed for its essential purpose, all limitations of
liability and exclusions of damages set forth in this Agreement shall
remain in effect. 

19.	This Agreement shall be construed, interpreted and governed by
the laws of the State of California, USA. Any action or proceeding
arising from or relating to this Agreement shall be brought in a federal
court in the Northern District of California or in the State Court in
Santa Clara County, California, and each party irrevocably submits to
the personal jurisdiction of any such court in any such action or
proceeding. The Agreement gives Licensee specific legal rights; Licensee
may have others, which vary from state to state and from country to
country. Trolltech reserves all rights not specifically granted in this
Agreement. 

